>> Jason Pamental: So now that
we've got the web fonts loaded in,
now we wanna make sure that we're
doing something with them to provide
the best possible reading experience.
So it may be overstating it a little bit
to say it's the absolute perfect page,
but I've tried to kind of put
as many different techniques and
tricks and little bits of
finesse in here as possible.
So the first thing we're gonna look at
is thinking through that proportion and
scale in the way that
I have been doing it,
which is by setting up several break
points and different sizes along the way.
And then also looking at how that
might work using this newer method,
using CSS variables and calculations.
So it looks something like this,
where designed from mobile first,
so the smallest one is up top.
What is the font size,
and the line height, and
margins to get the effect that I was
looking for on the small screen.
And then once it reached a minimum
with the 43 and three-quarters ems,
which is somewhere in the neighborhood
of 800 pixels or so, I think.
The font size bumps up to 2.5
letter spacing is normal,
line height is a little bit greater,
it's a little bit smaller, excuse me.
And then margins are offset
a little bit differently,
and then once you get onto more a desktop
sized screen, more in the neighborhood of
900 to 1000 pixels, then it's up to 3 or
3 times the size of body copy.
Letter spacing again is normal and
line height is different again,
and so on and so on,
as many breakpoints as you really need to
define to get the design
looking the way you want.
And that's usually paired with
h2s that stay in context, and
h3s that stay in context.
Always looking at, what is the minimum
size that you want it to be on
the small screen and the maximum size, and
then just picking the values in between so
that everything kinda grows and
scales together.
But if you start to think about all
the extra stuff that goes along with this
if you have the H1 and two or
three or four breakpoints and
you wanna style the fall backs at
each one of those breakpoints,
there's a lot of CSS to maintain,
so it really does start to add up.
And I've done it before and
it's certainly possible to do.
And SASS does make it
a little bit simpler to write
because you can keep
everything nested together.
But it's a little cumbersome,
so as you want to create more
intermediate break points for
more different classes of devices, then it
does really get a little bit out of hand.
So it would be nice to have a little
bit easier way of dealing with it.
So with a variable font and
using this technique,
we can simplify things a little bit.
One thing I want to point out, the syntax
for writing the @font-face declaration
at the moment is really no different
than using a non-variable font.
It's supposed to be truetype-variations or
waf or waf2-variations.
It's just not implemented
in all the browsers yet.
So there are some bits of this
where this is how it is now,
this is kinda how it's supposed to be.
You have to test and
look in a couple different browsers
to see what the state of support is.
But then you can go about writing
your CSS in a relatively normal way.
And if it sort of falls
outside the bounds of those
few different things that
you might want to declare,
then you can use font variation
settings to specify them all together.
One thing that's worth pointing out,
I don't know if I said this earlier,
the registered axes need to be lowercase.
For those four letter abbreviations,
custom axes need to be in all capitals.
They will not work if you don't.
I think they might work in one browser but
they're not supposed to.
Generally speaking,
they probably won't work in the majority
of browsers if you get that wrong.
There's really only five at the moment,
width,
weight,
>> Jason Pamental: Width, weight,
stretch, oblique, and, well,
slant, and optical size.
Those are the only ones
that you might use.